There are four big changes coming to the
Instagram algorithm, and these updates
have been revealed by Instagram's CEO
himself. In today's episode, I'm going
to share with you exactly what those
algorithm updates are, how you can take
advantage of them, and how they're going
to affect you if you want to grow and
make more money on Instagram. And
according to my YouTube coach, I need to
do a better job of asking for you to
subscribe to my channel right here at
the start of the video. So, rather than
waiting until the final 5 seconds, I'm
going to ask you right now. If you are
someone who wants to build a brand or
business on Instagram, if you are trying
to gain more followers, go viral, get
more views, and make more money on
Instagram, then you're in the right
place. Because here on the Build Your
Tribe podcast, I upload a new episode
every single week with the latest tips,
strategies, and algorithm updates so you
can make the most out of Instagram in
the least amount of time possible. So,
I'm going to check off that box by
asking you to subscribe right now. And
please just double check to make sure
that you are subscribed because
according to our most recent analytics
about 83% of our viewers are not
subscribed. So please just take a quick
second right now to double check that
you are in fact subscribed to the show.
And with that, let's get into today's
episode. The head of Instagram, Adam
Moseri, who yes, was interviewed by me
earlier this year on this channel,
recently revealed that Instagram has now
surpassed three billion monthly active
users, which is absolutely insane when
you think about the fact that there are
only 8 billion people on the planet. And
even more insane when you think about
the fact that there are almost 2 billion
people who are blocked from accessing
Instagram. Currently, at the time of
recording this, Russia, China, North
Korea, and a handful of other countries
have blocked Instagram access completely
in their countries. And if you add up
all of their populations, it's just
below 2 billion. And so really, when you
do the math, Instagram is used by about
50% of all people on the planet every
single month. And then when you think
about how much of the global population
is made up of babies and little kids who
don't have access to Instagram yet, it
starts to become apparent that yeah,
pretty much everyone is on Instagram.
And so I want to start with a word of
encouragement, which is even though
Instagram and social media as a whole
feels oversaturated, it feels like you
can't break out, it feels like you can't
grow, that is absolutely not the case.
In order to grow to the 3 billion
monthly active users mark, Adam Moseri
said that there were three driving
factors that have contributed the most
to Instagram's growth. And he said those
three factors are messaging, reels, and
recommendations.
>> We're going to continue to focus on
those products and reorient the app more
around DMs, reels, and recommendations
over the next couple months.
>> In my conversation with him earlier this
year, I complimented him on direct
messages and I said that I think it's
Instagram's strong suit. It's a feature
that Instagram has figured out better
than any other platform. And the
adoption or the use of direct messages
on Instagram far exceeds the use of DMs
on other platforms like YouTube, Tik
Tok, and Twitter. In fact, over the last
year or so, Adam Moseri is on record of
saying that there is more content shared
via direct message every single day than
there is content shared on the feed.
Which means, to say it another way, more
people are sending reels and sending
posts back and forth in the DMs every
single day than they are posting to
their feed. One of the most obvious
changes on Instagram over the last
decade or so is that when you scroll
through your feed, you're not really
seeing your friends and family members
content anymore. I remember back in
2014, you would open up Instagram and
there was nothing in your feed besides
your friends and family and all of their
posts from the last few hours. But now
you scroll through your feed and unless
I'm seeing one of my mom's posts, I'm
not really seeing posts from my family
and friends. Now my feed is filled with
recommendations and the place where we
connect with our friends and family on
Instagram is primarily in the direct
messages. But what does this mean for
you as someone who wants to grow on
Instagram? It means that you want to be
creating the kinds of posts that are
going to get shared. Your goal with
almost every post you make, if your goal
is to grow and go viral and get more
views and followers, should be creating
content that is worthy of being sent
from one person to another. Now, that's
not the purpose of today's episode. I've
done an entire episode in the past about
creating shareworthy content. It
includes examples and my five-step
formula for creating shareworthy posts.
So, I'll link that up somewhere on the
screen here. But the TLDDR of it is that
shares are unequivocally the best form
of engagement on Instagram. They're how
you get more views. They're how you go
viral. And they're how you get more
followers. Also, just a few weeks ago, I
put out an episode on what I believe is
the most underrated and underused tool
on all of Instagram for people who want
to increase their engagement, get more
views, and make more sales. It's called
DM automation. And admittedly, it's
probably our worst performing episode in
the last few months because it's
something that doesn't sound that sexy.
It doesn't sound that appealing. But I
want you to consider the fact that the
head of Instagram himself chose to list
messaging, direct messaging, as the
number one driver of their platform's
growth. And that is an episode that lets
you take advantage of DMs and use them
to their maximum power, unlike anything
else. So, I'm going to encourage you to
check that out once you're done watching
today's episode because if you're not
already using DM automation, you're
trying to grow on Instagram with one or
maybe even two hands tied behind your
back. Of course, no shocker here, the
second driver of Instagram's growth is
reels. That makes sense. Reals make up
the majority of feed content being
shared. Reals reach more people than any
other kinds of content, and reels reach
more nonfollowers than any other kinds
of post. So, of course, it makes sense
that reals, short form videos, are a
driving force behind Instagram's growth.
And then the third and final factor is
recommendations. Recommendations are
basically posts that the algorithm shows
you from people who you don't follow.
And these are recommended posts based
off what the algorithm thinks you would
be interested in. Now, in just a moment,
I'm going to talk more about that whole
thanks thing because that's another
massive Instagram update that has
recently taken place. But essentially,
the algorithm is constantly trying to
figure out what you're into and then
show you posts that align with that
interest. One area of Instagram where
Adam Moseri admits they have kind of
fallen behind Tik Tok and they are
actively working to improve is what you
could consider the speed of the
algorithm. Think about it this way. If
you're scrolling on Tik Tok and you
watch a 3 minute long video about
raising a puppy, well then it's very
likely that within your next 10 videos
on Tik Tok, maybe even your next five
videos, maybe even the very next video,
you're going to see more content about
raising puppies. on Instagram. If I was
to watch an entire reel about raising
puppies, it's not very likely that
within my next 10 or even my next 20 or
30 reels that I see is going to be more
content about training puppies.
Basically, the Tik Tok algorithm is
really, really good at figuring out what
you are interested in right this second
and then serving up that kind of content
to you. That's one of the reasons that
Tik Tok is so addicting. But Instagram
is working on improving these
capabilities themselves. They're working
on speeding up the process at which the
algorithm learns what your interests
are. Now, of course, this begs the
question, how does that impact me as a
brand or business owner? Well, it
impacts you very, very positively
because the playing field has never been
more level. The Instagram algorithm
cares a lot less about how many
followers you have or how many people
followed you in the past. It cares about
is your content relevant to any given
audience. If your content is engaging,
if it's relevant, if it's captivating,
if it's shareworthy, then it will be
recommended to the people who want to
see it. But the only way that the
algorithm can know whom to show your
content to is if you have a clear niche.
If every single one of your posts is
about a different topic, different
interests, well, then it's going to be
very hard for the algorithm to know this
account is all about puppy training
videos. And thus, we should show this
account's posts to people who are
interested in puppy training videos. If
you post one reel that is a puppy
training video, one reel about your hike
this weekend, one reel about your date
night selfie, one reel about your
vacation that you just went on, then
you're going to confuse the algorithm.
And when you confuse, you lose. So, one
of the foundational pieces, if you want
to get recommended more often on
Instagram and take advantage of this new
algorithm where followers don't matter
as much, then you need to have a niche.
because without it, the algorithm
doesn't know where to place you. In
response to messaging, reels, and
recommendations being such a driving
factor of Instagram's growth, they're
going to be reorganizing the layout of
the Instagram app very soon. Now, I've
gotten to sneak preview what this is
going to look like, and I'm going to let
you know right now, you're going to be
very confused at first. There's going to
be like a week or so where you're like,
"Wait, where's the button for this? How
do I access DMs? How do I post a reel?"
It's going to be a little bit confusing,
but it's not worse. It's just different.
And of course, change is going to be
something that, you know, we're
oftentimes going to be averse to and
we're not going to want. But pretty
soon, Instagram is going to be rolling
out new app layouts that emphasizes
messaging, reels, and recommendations.
And all of this led Adam Moseri to make
the announcement that there is going to
be a new customizable algorithm, an
algorithm that you control. For the
first time in the history of Instagram,
we are now going to have a direct say in
the kinds of things that are recommended
and shown to us on the reels tab, the
homepage, and the explore page.
>> We're going to start testing a new way
for you to tune your algorithm. This was
heavily inspired by a meme on threads
over a year ago called dear algorithm,
where people actually ask the algorithm
to do things, show them more of certain
things and less of others. I found it
actually a really kind meaningful way to
shape the experience and correct
Instagram when it's getting things wrong
and add things that I love that
Instagram didn't figure out that I was
interested in.
>> This is being tested and rolled out
immediately. So, while you might not
have access to it yet, theoretically,
everyone on Instagram should have access
to it sooner or later. And what it's
going to allow you to do is tell the
algorithm, "I want to see more of this.
I want to see less of this." To access
this new customizable your algorithm,
you can either go to your Instagram
settings or you can view a reel, any
reel on the reels page and then tap on
the settings icon in the upper right
hand corner. When you tap on that, up at
the top of the screen, it will show you
three things that Instagram has decided
that you are extra interested in
recently. Kind of like your three
favorite things to consume over the last
few days or weeks. And then below that,
you'll see a collection of other
interests that the algorithm has
predicted or decided that you are
interested in. That list is totally
customizable. So, if you see something
on that list that you're actually not
into, you can remove it from that list.
If there's something that you are into
or you want to get into, you want to be
shown more content about that isn't on
that list, well, then you can add it. It
appears that everything on this list is
either a one to twoword category of
content. Basically, these are different
niches on Instagram. And so, again, like
I said earlier, as a brand or business
owner, the more that you post about one
thing, the more you niche down, the more
you allow Instagram to say, "Yep, you
are the go-to person for soccer
highlights. Yep, you are a great outdoor
cook. Yep, you are a great puppy
trainer." And then when people add one
of those terms that relates to your
account to their algorithm, they will be
more likely to see your content. This is
great news for anyone with a relatively
small following or anyone who's been
struggling to grow on Instagram because
theoretically these changes and this new
customizable algorithm should, like I
said earlier, level the playing field a
little bit more and allow these smaller
creators to break out. It doesn't mean
that big creators are going to be
handcuffed. It just means that they're
not going to get as much preferential
treatment. Of course, having followers
still matters. Of course, the more
followers you have, the bigger pool of
people Instagram and the algorithm can
consider showing your content to because
they do prefer to show your content to
your followers rather than just new
people. So, it is still beneficial to
have followers. It's not like Instagram
is going to start punishing people who
have a lot of followers, but this is a
change that is super helpful and could
be very, very beneficial for anyone with
a smaller account. and all of that.
Everything I just listed is just the
first algorithm update directly from
Adam Moseri. Algorithm update number two
pertains to something that we haven't
talked about today, which is your
Instagram stories. For the last 2 to 3
years, Instagram stories have been
boosted. You've been getting more story
views the less stories you post, all the
way down to just one story. In fact,
it's that knowledge that has informed my
STD strategy. Some of you have heard of
my STD strategy, and yes, I know it has
a funny name, but the S in STD strategy
is the word single. Single meaning one,
meaning if you post just one Instagram
story, that's how you get the most
views. That is how you maximize your
story views. And it's been this way for
about 2 to 3 years. Well, Instagram says
that they have caught on. They figured
it out. And according to Adam Moseri,
it's something that they have fixed.
>> We fixed something. Now, I look at my
DMs and my comments all the time to try
and see how people are doing and to
figure out how things are going. And one
thing I saw over and over again is that
people were complaining about getting
less reach with their stories if they
posted lots of stories in the same day.
And that is not at all the intended
behavior of Instagram. So, we looked
into it and we figured out what was
going on and we've addressed the issue.
Now, it is still the case that not
everyone who taps on your first story is
going to tap all the way through to your
last story, but no longer will posting
more and more stories in the same day
decrease the reach of your stories
overall, particularly that first story.
So, if you want to post a lot in the
same day, you can do so.
>> So, what does that mean for you as
someone who probably wants to get the
most views possible on their stories?
Well, honestly, still follow the STD
formula. While the single is going to be
less impactful than in the past, it's
still going to be more beneficial than
posting multiple stories. Basically,
what's happened is that the discrepancy
between posting one story or posting
more than one story has been more
balanced. In the past, if you posted one
story, you'd get a ton of views and as
soon as you posted a second or third
story, it would go like way down. Now,
it's just going to be more level. It's
not like now if you post one story
you're going to get very little views,
but if you post three or four or more,
then your views are going to go up.
That's not necessarily the case. It's
just that a single story is not going to
be disproportionately rewarded compared
to having multiple stories posted. So,
in order to get maximum story views, I
would still recommend following the STD
strategy, which we've done an entire
episode on in the past, but the TLDDR of
it is that S stands for single, T stands
for textheavy, and D stands for DM
automation. Remember earlier I talked to
you about DM automation. I told you we
did an entire episode on it just a few
weeks ago. DM automation is one of the
best ways to boost your story views. It
has reliably been working this way for
about five or six years now. And it
makes sense. Instagram views direct
messages as one of the driving features
for their growth. Instagram wants to
emphasize and reward people who are
getting more DMs and sending more DMs.
And so by using DM automation on your
Instagram stories, that's how you get
the most possible views. All right,
algorithm update number three. And
again, all of these have come directly
from Adam Moseri. And this one pertains
to trial reels. On one of his recent
Instagram stories, Adam Moseri said,
>> "Don't try to use them just to pummel
the same content over and over and over
again. Um, we're trying to crack down on
that. That's become a bit of a spam
vector that we are addressing."
>> Now, before you cancel me, before you
get mad at me, for the last 8 months, I
have been telling you that trial reels
were a cheat code. Trial reels were a
way that you could post multiple of the
same reel over and over again and with
basically little to no drawback, reach
new people and grow your audience. I've
also been telling you that we need to
take advantage of this while we can
because pretty quickly Instagram is
going to catch on to how we are all and
when I say we, I mean us who are trying
to grow our following, us marketers, us
business owners, they're going to catch
on to how we are using it and they're
going to limit it. They're going to
change it or they're going to take it
away. And I was right. that has now
happened. The first change to trial
reels is that there are now caps on how
many you can post per day.
Unfortunately, there's not a universal
cap. So, I can't say that everyone can
only post 10 a day. Some accounts don't
have a cap. Some accounts can post 25 a
day. Some accounts can post 20. Some
accounts can only post five trial reels
per day. My account is one of those. If
I try to post more than five trial reels
per day, Instagram blocks me from
posting anymore. When I try to post more
than five trial reels per day, Instagram
says, "Whoa, whoa, whoa. We won't let
you post any more trial reels for 24
hours." But I know some people who have
tried to post more than five in a day,
and they've received a restriction from
posting trial reels for the next 30
days. So now, as a general
recommendation, I recommend posting no
more and no less than five trial reels
per day. But that's not the only update
to trial reels that has recently taken
place. Adam Ozeri on his recent
Instagram stories, like I mentioned,
talked about duplicate trial reels,
where you're posting the exact same
trial reel over and over and over again.
And he said that is something that is a
spam vector, meaning that Instagram
recognizes that as spammy content, and
now Instagram is going to throttle your
views if you are participating in this
practice. Basically, you can't just copy
and paste the exact same reel over and
over again and expect to get views. That
was something that had worked for the
last eight months and it was a really
easy way for us brands and content
creators and business owners to get our
reels out there to more people without
having to do much more work. But
admittedly, it is somewhat spammy and a
lot of people have been using it in a
very spammy way, posting literally
hundreds of trial reels of the exact
same trial reel every single day over
and over again. And so Instagram has
decided to put these limitations in
place. So what you should do now besides
just the quantity of five per day is
each of those five need to have some
sort of variation. And specifically the
variation needs to be non-minimal. It
needs to be somewhat substantial. It
can't just be one minor change in your
hook or rewarding the text on the screen
or putting new background music or a new
trending audio on your reel or just
rewriting your caption. None of that
will be enough to count as a new reel.
If you want Instagram to view your two
trial reels as two separate reels that
are distinguishable from each other and
thus give you the appropriate and
deserved views on both of those trial
reels. There needs to be a difference
between the two. There needs to be a
somewhat substantial difference between
the two. And specifically what Instagram
and the algorithm is looking at is what
is on the screen. So, the actual visual
content for the first six or seven
seconds. So, if that means that you have
to re-edit your hook, do it. If that
means you have to refilm your hook, do
it. If that means that you have to
completely change the audio and rework
things, maybe it's the same idea or
you're teaching the same general topics
in your reel, but it's refilmed or it's
got a new edit to the hook. That's
pretty much the only way that you're
going to be able to get by with posting
the same content multiple times in your
trial reels. And no, it doesn't reset
every day. I've had some people ask me
since this news has dropped, "Well, if I
post a reel on Monday, can I post the
exact same thing on Tuesday?" No. Once
you post it a single time as a trial
reel, Instagram will look at all of your
future trial reels indefinitely and
compare them to that one to make sure
that it's not a word for word duplicate.
Now, before we move on to the fourth and
final algorithm update, I do want to
clarify this does not pertain to your
feed posts or your normal reels. This
only pertains to trial reels. I spoke
with Instagram staff directly about this
update and they informed me that if you
have a reel that you posted to your feed
and you want to post it again, they
wouldn't recommend posting it again the
next day or the next week, but once it's
been a week or so, you are free to
repost or I should say re-upload your
own content multiple times. No, you do
not have to delete the original. No, you
do not have to change anything. No, you
do not have to note that this is
something that you have previously
posted. If you posted something in,
let's say, July, and you wanted to post
it again a second time, exact duplicate
in September, you are free to do so as
long as it's to your normal feed as a
normal reel and not a trial reel. And
finally, last but not least, the fourth
algorithm update that you need to be
aware of moving forward is that
Instagram has added a new benefit to
Metaverified. Metaverified is the
program where you can pay a monthly fee
to get the blue check mark on your
account. My personal opinion is that
it's something that I would recommend.
Not necessarily because the features
they give you are all that helpful, with
the exception of the one I'm about to
name, but because when I see an account
with a blue check mark, I think this is
someone who takes Instagram seriously.
This isn't a spammer. This isn't a bot.
This is their real account. And this is
someone who cares about growing on
Instagram. This is someone who cares
about their business. They care enough
to pay the monthly fee. In addition to
the monthly fee, you also get
impersonation protection. You get a
private one-on-one chat with Instagram
customer service, and you get some small
minor additional benefits. But now,
Instagram is going to give you a boost
to your SEO, if you are Metaverified.
Specifically, they said that if you are
metaverified, your handle, your
Instagram profile will show up at the
top of Instagram search results. So, if
there are 1,700
Joe Smiths on Instagram, but three of
them are verified, Joe Smith 17, Joe
Smith number one, and then Joe Smith
official. Those are the three verified
Joe Smiths. Those three are going to
show up at the top. So, again, I
recommend Metaverified. It's something
that I think is helpful. And now you're
going to get a direct boost to your
search engine optimization by showing up
at the top of Instagram searches if you
are Metaverified. One final algorithm
update that I wanted to let you know
about is actually a YouTube algorithm
update with a new YouTube feature. Some
of you may have noticed I actually got a
comment on one of my videos last week
asking me what the heck is this. Down
below you're going to see a button that
says hype. It's a new feature part of
the new YouTube algorithm where if you
find a video really good, you think it's
just better than the rest. You can like
it, but hyping it specifically boosts it
to more people. It's kind of like a way
to tell the YouTube algorithm, "Hey,
this video is really good. Push it out
to more people." And so, I know that I
had some people hyping my last video
without me even asking. I want to ask
you, if you enjoyed today's episode, if
you learned something new, if you think
that more brands and business owners
should hear this news about these
algorithm updates, I want to ask you to
hit that hype button. Let's see if we
can hype up this video and get it to uh
let's say 50,000 views. I think that
that would be pretty awesome. And I
think that hyping this video would be an
awesome way to help do that. I also want
to say thank you. We're almost at 100K
subscribers. That is my goal to get to
100K by the end of 2025. We'll see if we
get there. We're over 70,000 now. Uh so
that's 70% of the way there. We'll see
if we get there. And you hyping this
video, you making sure you subscribe is
going to go a long way. So, thank you so
much for being here today and I'll see
you next